# 03 Podcasting

Amount of Projects: 4
Doesn't Need Attachment: No
Essential (Middle Tier): F
FilmingTheory?: Joden, Aydan
FilmingWorkShop / Examples / Whatever Supplementary Materials: Alex O'Connor
Missing Attachments?: Yes
Module priority: Medium
Needs: PDF, affiliate links
Parent: Conversions (Conversions%2017ed642a7f7180c4a6fbdfe236e63d2e.md)
Parent Groups: Conversions
Parent item: Conversions (Conversions%2017ed642a7f7180c4a6fbdfe236e63d2e.md)
Parent?: No
Person Assinged Writer: Alex O'Connor
Projects: C3 Freelancer / Solopreneur (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C3%20Freelancer%20Solopreneur%2017ed642a7f7180dea416c341c18357ed.md), F1 Blueprint (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F1%20Blueprint%2017ed642a7f7180bf9712ec98dea1861f.md), F2 Build (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F2%20Build%2017ed642a7f7180a2a2f6d94be6cf333e.md), F3 Accelerate (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F3%20Accelerate%2017ed642a7f718039805ccd26b58da0c6.md)
Status: Finding Examples
String Length: 1
Theory/Lectures Filmed?: Yes
Workshops/Supplementaries Filmed?: No

# Resources needed

- [ ]  Summary infographic
    - [ ]  why pods are important
    - [ ]  how to get on someone elses pods
    - [ ]  how to start and run a pod
- [ ]  Podcast setup equipment list/blueprint
- [ ]  Affiliate links for equipment

# Script

To convert followers to paying customers, your community needs somewhere to thrive.

Where short form is there to take your message to loads and loads of people, long form is a place to consolidate community, offering more in depth content to those who are already converted.

One of the most popular formats to nurture your community, is podcasting. And I’m not surprised - it has a tonne of immediately obvious benefits:

- its an in depth, unfiltered, easy way to show the “real you”
- its easily clippable, with most people thinking it will do the heavy lifting on short form, (although, proceed with caution - see our section on this - its actually harder than you think)
- It’s a great excuse to network with other creators
- lets be honest - who doesnt love their own takes

Podcasts are brilliant.

But before we get into converting to your own podcast, it’s likely one of your goals is to be booked as a guest.

We, naturally, have some strong opinions on this. 

If you remember nothing else about getting podcast gigs, remember this: the guests that really nail their position as “the guy who” will always get the gig.

The best example of this effect in action is looking at the guest titles on Steven Bartlett’s “Diary of a CEO” podcast:

- “Keto Psychiatrist”
- “Body Language Expert”
- “Money Making Expert”
- “Dopamine Expert”

He only brings on guests who are **clearly** “the guy who” in their niche. Many of these guests have under 100,000 followers, but they still get on one of the biggest podcasts in the world, as they have clearly shown their uniquely valuable expertise through their content and personal brand.

Make sure you create content that positions yourself with that same clarity, and guesting on podcasts will become easier.

STARTING A PODCAST

But, if you’re a person who is interesting enough to want to build a project online and shout about it with video, chances are, you are either considering, currently doing, or have have tried to start your own podcast already.

Starting your own podcast is a massive step for not only you but your entire short form strategy, and with several very specific ways podcasts and short form go hand in hand, we thought it’d be rude not to give you our take.

So, firstly, your podcast will not reach anyone unless your famous, your guests are famous, or you get smart about structuring it for short form.

I’m going to take a guess that neither you or your network are famous, so we’ll remind you of the fundamentals of how short form and podcasts go hand in hand

1. first, your “identity” shouldn’t vary. The pillars, core values, and content you create for your podcast should share and expand from what you have created for short form

In the beginning, getting your audience over from short form platforms will be a lot, lot easier if your podcast relates heavily to the brand you’ve already built.

Remember the principles of a great lead magnet - your podcast should be similarly valuable

So - back to gardening - Gary the strawberry specialist does controversial gardening tips on tiktok, has a lead magnet about ideal soil conditons, and is now talking to the GOATS of gardening about how they did it.

With this mix, hes giving his customers light practical advice (short form), Detailed practical advice (lead magnet) and inspiration (podcast). Which all fits the needs and pains of his core customers, keen gardeners.

If the value isnt clear to your core audience, theres practically no point in launching the podcast, as long form is so much harder to find its own audience. 

To promote it, like a lead magnet, use a manychat integration and include your podcast on linktree to maximise conversions. The caption on short form podcast clips can encourage people to comment a word to get sent the whole thing. 

1. So secondly, think of your podcast as an hour long opportunity to be the opposite of boring.

David Walliams and Louis Theroux have all launched podcasts in the last year. You’ve got to be as interesting as people like that. If not more. 

Please avoid the classic temptations of:

- A long introductory chat about your weekend
- Talking about your niche business special interest
- Generally forgetting your being listened to by an audience that is looking for an excuse to turn it off, no matter how technical.

We’ve done a whole section on producing a podcast for clips, study that to make sure your using every minute wisely.

And thirdly, remember the point of a podcast.

The podcast’s short form clips can take a stranger to a follower, and the podcast’s long form clips can take a follower to a fan. 

Recognise a podcast’s place in your funnel and use it to build a space for your community to openly discuss important topics in your niche. 

Ultimately, people buy from people, and what better way to get to know someone than sitting chatting for hours. A podcast is a brilliant way to both introduce yourself, and warm up your audience to purchase.