# 07 Newsletter

Amount of Projects: 4
Doesn't Need Attachment: No
Essential (Middle Tier): F
FilmingTheory?: Tia Warner, Joden
FilmingWorkShop / Examples / Whatever Supplementary Materials: Tia Warner
Missing Attachments?: Yes
Module priority: Medium
Needs: PDF
Parent: Conversions (Conversions%2017ed642a7f7180c4a6fbdfe236e63d2e.md)
Parent Groups: Conversions
Parent item: Conversions (Conversions%2017ed642a7f7180c4a6fbdfe236e63d2e.md)
Parent?: No
Person Assinged Writer: Tia Warner, Alex O'Connor
Projects: C3 Freelancer / Solopreneur (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C3%20Freelancer%20Solopreneur%2017ed642a7f7180dea416c341c18357ed.md), F1 Blueprint (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F1%20Blueprint%2017ed642a7f7180bf9712ec98dea1861f.md), F2 Build (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F2%20Build%2017ed642a7f7180a2a2f6d94be6cf333e.md), F3 Accelerate (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F3%20Accelerate%2017ed642a7f718039805ccd26b58da0c6.md)
Status: Finding Examples
String Length: 1
Theory/Lectures Filmed?: No
Workshops/Supplementaries Filmed?: No

Tia smashed it. May need some rewording

# Resources needed

- [ ]  Summary infographic
    - [ ]  Newsletter theory
    - [ ]  best tools
- [ ]  Newsletter landing page eg

# Script

The final step in converting your audience from follower to paying customer is your newsletter.

Running a newsletter

- Allows you to reach your customers directly (and own the data)
- Is the last step to conversion - sales from a newsletter done right should be much easier than on any other  platform
- Allows you to truly understand your customer

So, think of your newsletter as the core of your community that you hold incredibly dear.

Lead magnets will be essential to get followers to join your newsletter.

If your Kim Kardashian, or you have a tonne of charisma, people might be interested in a weekly update on your life, but lets assume your not and you don’t, so remember; 

People will not join a newsletter that lacks clear value to them.

When pitching your newsletter, make sure you have a landing page that talks you through exactly who its for, what they will get, when they will get it and why your are doing it.

With this laid out, link the copy in your CTA and lead magnet process to drive people to your newsletter for the above reasons.

I built this newsletter for young gardeners like me to get the latest in gardening every week.

When you repeatedly remind your audience to check out your lead magnet that solves a clear problem for them, you will get subs to your newsletter.

This, is where the fun begins.

What goes into that newsletter?

There are two main approaches: 

- the substack/ medium approach - sharing a story every week, providing value in your analysis
- And the news approach: collating interesting articles and tools, that are relevant to your niche - providing value in your research

Decide on which works best for you ( if not both), and you’ll be ready to write.

Here’s the lowdown on what makes a good newsletter:

Firstly, lets get into the subject line:

- Your subject line needs to capture attention, fast.  its very similar to writing a hook: Shock factor and intrigue always leads to clicks. so try a striking emoji, a question, play with controversy, and you will get attention.
- And dont forget the caption - the most overlooked part of writing a newsletter. Give some extra context here and use it as another chance to hook your audience. Apple notifications actually truncate the subj line so this is arguably even more important than that to some readers.

Next, lets get into what will make your newsletter valuable: research

- to find articles, find your go to news sites. For example for a tech newsletter you’d want tech crunch, the FT, science daily, wired, the verge etc. If you search for long enough you will find some interesting stuff on here. Also great to have a look on arxiv to find research papers that NOONE is covering.
- other similar newsletters is also a great source of inspiration. Not only will they talk about similar things, but might point you towards new publications, or new fun ways of displaying information, that you can ‘cherry pick’.

**So, lets get into Tools**

- [archive.is](http://archive.is) is your best friend. Gets you past any pay wall. But male sure you still link the article to the actual article (not the archive version) for your readers.
- chatGPT or claude (or any LLM of your choice) are also great, specifically for summarising articles. Always rewrite it, as the copy will be boring and definitely not focussed on what is interesting. But of course, fact check with the real thing after you’ve written up your summary.

Newsletter writing basics

- A good intro is necessary. In general just writing about a ‘contents summary’ of what’s in the newsletter is a bit boring (they can find out what’s in it soon enough) I would recommend trying to draw out certain themes from the news that week, and making interesting commentary on the themes. Another way to do it is tie your industry, and your topic, to other news or current events. Regardless this is space to inject some personality, some thoughts and feelings you had. Also a good place to prompt some interesting questions or thoughts in people’s heads. But again, keep this short and sweet.
- Most people skim read your newsletter, average read time is very short, so It has to be eye catching, simple, and immediately understandable.
- You want to keep it simple and readable, lots of paragraphs, no huge blocks of text. With images, and links to all your research easy to access, to break it up visually. of course, write about anything you want to write about, but keeping it relevant to this week/ this month, does make it better. Or why not just have a substack? People will keep reading if it keeps being relevant.
- The question is, why would someone read your newsletter? my view has always been to write newsletters for people who want to improve their smalltalk. They want to go to a meeting or a dinner, and be able to show off some cool knowledge (nothing crazy in depth) that makes them seem smart. This also means they want an opinion to take away from it, and often they will follow **your** newsletter, because they want to have **your** opinion. So keep both of these top of mind when writing. Would someone be able to have an interesting dinner party conversation about childcare after reading this? Then it’s a good childcare newsletter.

Now, **Design** 

Good visual design to your newsletter is key. Start off with a recognisable banner or title, for visual identity. Then, a lot of people will read on their phones, so keep it simple, break up the text with images, or outlines for different sections. 

No huge blocks of text. Make sure it’s visually striking and has a cohesive design style that fits your topic. 

**Optimizing your newsletter A/B Testing** 

You can listen to all of these tips, but as, with anything, they will differ for your specific audience. It’s good to set up A/B testing where you can send two different versions of the newsletter, to two groups of people. 

When testing, you can select what percentage of people you A/B test with. If you have a small audience, to get the most data, you should probably split 50/50. 

If you have a larger audience, you can play with it so the majority of people get the most optimised email. how youd run that is 10 percent of the list receive version A, 10 percent receive version B, and 80 percent receive the winner of those two versions (the one with the highest open rate). 

It’s always best to A/B test on the subject line (as this is what impacts open rate). For example testing subject line as a question or a statement, testing two different topics in the subject line, or testing different emojis. Although its best to run one type of A/B test (i.e, testing between a statement and a question ) for at least a month with a decent sample size to be able to draw any actual conclusions from it. Once you’ve worked one thing out, find something else to test, and run that for the next month. 

With this process I was able to improve open rate from 20% to 50% in less than six months. This is essential. 

Your CRM, which we’ll cover next, will be able to handle and automate this process for you. 

**Best places to host/manage a newsletter**

- You will need a CRM to host your newsletter on. I have most experience with hubspot, good for managing emails and automations, but not very customisable for design
- Mail chimp is also very popular
- regardless of what you go for, its always important to have one that facilitates A/B testing.

Ultimately, the newsletter is the place you will be able to sell the most, look after it, and overdeliver on value, and it will be the healthy core of your community.