# Helpful Formats 101

Amount of Projects: 4
Doesn't Need Attachment: No
Essential (Middle Tier): C
FilmingTheory?: Joden
FilmingWorkShop / Examples / Whatever Supplementary Materials: Tia Warner
Missing Attachments?: Yes
Module priority: Medium
Parent: Theory Basics (Theory%20Basics%2017ed642a7f71800b89f2fb04039f2fca.md)
Parent Groups: Theory Basics
Parent?: No
Person Assinged Writer: Tia Warner
Projects: C2 Creative (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C2%20Creative%2017ed642a7f7180e4b0e7e33842830529.md), C3 Freelancer / Solopreneur (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C3%20Freelancer%20Solopreneur%2017ed642a7f7180dea416c341c18357ed.md), F1 Blueprint (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/F1%20Blueprint%2017ed642a7f7180bf9712ec98dea1861f.md), C1 Basics (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C1%20Basics%2017ed642a7f7180798cf9eb695f4dae69.md)
Status: Finding Examples
String Length: 1
Theory/Lectures Filmed?: Yes
Workshops/Supplementaries Filmed?: No

Ok, formats. So we mentioned these briefly in the scripting section, but formats are the things you use to FRAME your videos. The cheese you put around the pill. The wrapping of your video, that you use to cover up your ‘boring content’. Or to make your interesting content, even more interesting. 

So you can come up with these by yourself - and generally the people who do come up with their own, do very well. If it’s good. But we don’t need to reinvent the wheel here. For a fresh account just starting out, to be honest even a successful one, there are plenty of pre validated formats you can take and use for your own content. Now there are hundreds on tiktok so please have a look for yourslef, but to start, let’s go through a few popular ones that are definitely worth knowing - and worth trying out. 

### **1. Reacts**

Reacts are videos where you, as a creator, watch another video - and film your reacting to it, then giving a hot take at the end. Think gogglebox, for tiktok. 

Here’s a few tips to making a great react. 

- First: Keep it real. Don’t force your emotions, people will enjoy your genuine surprise or amusement.
- Second: React to a video that’s the opposite of your opinion. Reacting to something you agree with is boring, and won’t emotionally resonate with people. Remember we need conflict? This is the perfect way to do it.
- Third: Use split-screen or picture-in-picture to help viewers follow both the original content and your response at the same time.
- And finally: React to viral videos. you can jump off their success to get views. And if the video you’re reacting to was boring by itself, it’s just as boring with you watching it.

### 2. Listicles

Ok next, listicles, these are just videos structured around a numbered list of points—“3 craziest on set accidents,” “5 Tips for agencies in 2025,” or “my 10 favourite new creators”. Listicles are great. They’re virally optimised and they convey information quickly in a bite-sized, easy-to-digest way. Which makes them really easy to write. 

A few tips for making a great listicle.

- First, you want to start with a strong hook that immediately mentions that it’s a list.
- Second, use on-screen text or visual markers for each list item, so viewers can easily follow along.
- And third, put the most interesting points in the list up front. And the most boring ones in the middle.

### 

So here’s a few easy formats to start off with, but there are loads more you can try out.

- V2 [more in depth]
    
    **Formats**
    
    Ok, formats. So we mentioned these briefly in the scripting section, but formats are the things you use to FRAME your videos. The cheese you put around the pill. The wrapping of your video, that you use to cover up your ‘boring content’. Or to make your interesting content, even more interesting. 
    
    So you can come up with these by yourself - and generally the people who do come up with their own, do very well. If it’s good. But we don’t need to reinvent the wheel here. For a fresh account just starting out, to be honest even a succesful one, there are plenty of pre validated formats you can take and use for your own content. Now there are hundreds on tiktok so please have a look for yourslef, but to start, let’s go through a few popular ones that are definitely worth knowing - and worth trying out. 
    
    1. **The ‘doing two things at once’ format.** This principle actually comes from film and TV, and is the idea that a scene is more interesting, intellectually and visually, when more than one thing is going on at once. Like two characters having a fight while aggressively eating burgers, is way more interesting than just two characters having a fight. The same applies to short form. This is why you’ll get creators telling stories while making food/ cutting up fruit. It’s why the storytime ‘get ready with me while I do my makeup’ works so well, as there’s a story to follow, plus, you can watch someone else doing their makeup.
        
        It’s why the hackiest of tiktok accounts will split screen a video with something else going on, like slime content, or subway surfers, or just any brainless visual content that won’t confuse the story of the other clip. it means if attention slips on one thing it can go focus on the other thing, until attention is brought back.  
        ****
        Finding a way to do this can BOOST your views massively. Finding a UNIQUE way to do this, could make you a viral creator. 
        
    
    1. **The ‘react’ video.** This is a staple of short form, and a really effective way to visually communicate your point. A react video is simply you watching another video and, reacting to it. Think gogglebox for TikTok. These work as they’re a visual hook - the viewer can see that you’re going to watch the video and at the end, have something to say about it (implied payoff) and they’ve also got a bit of the ‘two things at once’ method. They watch your expressions, as well as another clip. My tips to doing reacts right, are make sure you’re reacting to a **viral** video so you can jump off its virality (if people watched it there, they’ll watch it again here, and vice versa) and also try and react to videos that have the **opposite** take you want to make. Reacting to a video and agreeing with it, typically, isn’t very viral. Reacting to a video and disagreeing, and using that to make a point that fits in with one of your pillars. much better. For example if you make content that’s ‘anti dieting culture’ then watching a viral video of someone who is encouraging dieting behaviour and proving them wrong, is much better than reacting to a video of someone else who agrees with dieting culture, and just nodding along and not adding anything yourself. 
    
    1. **The listicle.** This is probably the simplest format to make, and, is **properly** viral optimised. These are your ‘top 5 ways to do ‘X’’, my top 10 predictions for ‘Y’, the three craziest things I ever heard during ‘Z’. It’s clear and easy to understand, and has a great implied payoff ‘if number one is crazy, imagine how insane number 5 will be!’. Plus viewers know where they’re at in the video, so if they get a bit bored 3/5th of the way in they can see that number 4 is coming up soon, and will get interesting again, which is great for retention. A couple tips for these is to supplement with a visual representation of the list ‘e.g., bullet points with numbers 1-8 and the words blurred out’ just to really double down on that visual payoff. A second tip for these, is in mastering the order of the list. As a rule of thumb, if you have 5 cool facts I’d put them in this order:
    1. most interesting, 2. second most interesting, 3. second most boring. 4. most boring. 5. third most interesting. 
        
        This can be tweaked a little, but making sure 1,2 and 5 are super interesting, and 4 is the worst, is really important to getting people to watch the whole way through. 
        
        It works as it will generally get people to stay to the end, they’ve had their payoff from the first two, and are willing to sit through a boring 3 and 4 because they assume 5 will be the best (i don’t know why that is, but it is just a factor of human psychology I’ve noticed time and time again).  
        
        And finally, if you want to CTA your video, make sure to do it just before the last one in your list *‘and before I get to the craziest one, I’d love if you could subscribe to my newsletter, anyway number 5…’.* 
        This one’s just based off the principle that if they’ve made it that far through, they’re staying to the end of point 5. If you put it too early, they’re gone (you’re taking too long to deliver on your hook) and if you put it after the list, you’ve already delivered and, they’re gone. 
        
        **Fourth The Podcast clip.** I’m sure you’ve noticed, podcast-style clip videos are insanely popular on short form platforms. Typically they’re a short bit of a larger discussion or interview. But, insider secret, often they’re just completely fake, someone sitting down in their room with a mic, talking to themselves, pretending they’re on a podcasts (you’d be surprised at how many of them are). Now this works as a format as the podcast has an built in credibility and authority.
        If you see someone with podcast gear on, you assume they’re important and that they have something to say. Which makes you more likely to watch. It’s that white coat syndrome we talked about. 
        It’s also a great way to make it feel more personal and less ‘produced’, so not corporate.
        
        AND the hook is usually conversational and natural, which fits in with the perfect ‘delivery’ of a hook we talked about in that section - i.e., delivering like you’re speaking to a bunch of people at a dinner party. 
        
        So of course, this is an easy format to start with. But, fair warning, this format is a little saturated, so unless you do it very well, don’t expect guaranteed reseults from this one. 
        
        But if you are up for it. here’s a couple tips. 
        
        - First. If you’re clipping from an actual podcast, make sure your video still starts with a hook - the same rules apply. You can’t just clip an interesting bit of conversation.
        - Second. If you’re faking the podcast just for the clip, fake it well. Genuinely pretend like you’re talking to a friend off camera so you talk naturally. If people can tell it’s fake they will comment, great for retention, not good for PR.
        
        **And fifth, Another really common format is the Greenscreen.** This is probably the easiest to do, and surprisingly gets great results (we often use it as the hook of a video to draw people in). So a greenscreen is just a video of you superimposed on some pictures or videos. You can do this in the app, there’s an effect, or edit it in premiere pro (or capcut) after. Now the greenscreen is great, for certain things, like commenting on news articles, trends, other videos, photos, or just anything that has interesting visuals. The greenscreen does great as it’s natural and lo-fi - meaning it doesn’t feel corporate or like an ad. It also adds a lot of context, there’s a clear payoff and it’s clear what you’re talking about - making it not confusing. And there’s something else to focus on instead of jsut - your face - which just makes it more engaging to watch. if they get bored of you they can look at the pictures behind you. 
        
        So a couple tips for filming a good greenscreen. 
        
        - First. Keep your background images relevant and visually striking. Too much text might scare people off, and a really cool looking image will keep people paying attention.
        - And second: This one sounds basic, but so many people actually get this one wrong. Just be careful to avoid blocking the text behind you (if there is text) or the image behind you with your head or body.
        
        Ok so two things at once, reacts, listicles, podcast clips and greenscreens. They’re just interesting visual, and structural things you can do to FRAME your video, and format in a way that makes what you’re saying more digestible and - more entertaining and interesting. 
        
        If you’ve got the time, I’d recommend going through tiktok, insta or youtube, just scrolling through your feed, and seeing other ways people frame things, and having a think about WHY they work, and whether you can apply them to your content.