# Scriptwriting 101

Amount of Projects: 2
Doesn't Need Attachment: No
Essential (Middle Tier): C
FilmingTheory?: Joden
FilmingWorkShop / Examples / Whatever Supplementary Materials: Tia Warner
Missing Attachments?: Yes
Module priority: Normal
Parent: Theory Basics (Theory%20Basics%2017ed642a7f71800b89f2fb04039f2fca.md)
Parent Groups: Theory Basics
Parent?: No
Person Assinged Writer: Tia Warner
Projects: C2 Creative (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C2%20Creative%2017ed642a7f7180e4b0e7e33842830529.md), C1 Basics (../Course%2017cd642a7f718031ba7dde0b5b1aed17/Projects%2017cd642a7f718014a524ca9123755878/C1%20Basics%2017ed642a7f7180798cf9eb695f4dae69.md)
Status: Finding Examples
String Length: 1
Theory/Lectures Filmed?: Yes
Workshops/Supplementaries Filmed?: No

So you’ve got people hooked. They’re watching your video - how do you keep them watching that video? How do you keep them engaged - well that all comes down to your script.  

Now I just want to preface this section by saying short-form scripting isn’t anything like regular copywriting or scriptwriting. So take anything you know about writing, and throw it out the window - other than the basic principles of the english language - because completely different rules apply here. 6 different rules to be precise. Let’s get into them. 

### 1. The first rule of short form scripting, is simplicity

Just like we discussed in the cardinal rules section, your video should make sense to *anyone* who comes across it, even if they’re half-asleep at 3 a.m. or just casually scrolling. You should assume your viewer has zero prior knowledge of what you’re talking about, and is incapable of grasping difficult concept. Use everyday language, avoid big words, and get your point across in the clearest way possible. Basically, remove any pretentiousness and keep it simple. 

### 2. The second rule of short form scripting, is to be concise.

Attention spans are generally getting worse across the population, and we could argue short form is the problem, but those attention spans are even WORSE when on short form platforms. And if people zone out of your video for even a moment, they’ll scroll away. So cut any fluff from your script. Reword sentences to be shorter. If you find yourself repeating the same point, trim it out.  As a general rule, if the first draft of your script is 500 words, only 250 are necessary. If it’s 1000, cut it down to 500. Cut half of it out. Don’t waste anyones time. 

### 3. The third rule of short form scripting, is rehook, rehook, rehook.

With this one again you just have to assume your viewer doesn’t want to watch your video, you’ve got to assume that it’s a struggle for them to keep watching, and you need to use the script to make them feel they HAVE to keep them watching. Force them into being engaged and the way to do this, is through ‘curiosity loops’. So in the last module we established that the hook’s job, other than setting up what the video is about, is to create questions in the viewers mind, opening up curiosity loops that needs to be closed. 
The thing with scripting, is that the second that loop is closed, and the question is answered, the viewer is gone. So you need to rehook them. Time and time again. Think of it like a chain: hook → deliver → rehook immediately → deliver → rehook and so on and so on. 
A key part of this process is the delivery. You can’t just hook, rehook and keep them waiting. If you don’t answer the questions you raise quickly enough, people lose patience. So keep the viewers guessing, but give them enough answers to feel satisfied. Hook → deliver → rehook → deliver etcetera. 

### 4. The fourth rule of short form scripting is, authenticity.

For this one, back to the cardinal sin of being corporate, we don’t want to slip into ‘salesy’ territory. And if your script sounds too much like copy, viewers feel like they’re watching an ad and leave. Now this is surprisingly common, everyone seems to write like copy — especially people with copywriting experience, because writing in a natural voice is hard. So here’s a couple tricks I use when scripting naturally. 

The first thing I like to do, is imagine I’m at a dinner party, trying to explain it to a group of people I don’t know that well, without boring anyone. I then try and write it in exactly that way. It’s conversational, it flows, and it’s authentic. 

Now if you can write that down immediately then great, but assumign you’re new to this, that muscle will take a while to build (don’t worry it does get easeir). But for now if that is too difficult, then a great way to practice writing in this way is to write the first draft of your script, then take a break from it and leave it for a couple hours. Then come back to it and out loud (no pen and paper, no laptop) try and explain what the script, what the video is, into a voice message, just like you’re telling a friend what the story is. Then transcribe this voice message, and clean it up a bit. That way all the important information is there, but it’s still interesting, and most importantly **authentic.** 

Also just simply read it out loud to yourself. If it doesn’t feel right, if it doesn’t feel like you’d use that word (or whoever will be reading the script wouldn’t use that word)) then swap it out for something simpler. 
 

### **5. Ok now the fifth rule of short form scripting is, storytelling.**

At the end of the day, a short form script is a story, albeit a short and simple one, it’s still storytelling. So it also still has to follow the same principles. 

So what makes a good story? Well one important thing is conflict,  a good and an evil force, fighting it out, and ultimately one of them will win. Something for the audience to root for, and shout against. And the same goes for short form, your script should make sure to introduce a challenge or tension that the audience wants to see resolved. The conflict can be small—a bad opinion from someone else, a funny mishap, whatever—but it should motivate the viewer to keep watching.

Another thing that makes a great story is emotion. People need to feel an emotional connection to your content, to your story, to enjoy it. Now that can be anger, catharsis, joy, outrage, shock, sadness or guilt. Honestly whatever, it can be any emotion. So if your content isn’t working, it’s worth double checking whether this emotion actually comes through - and if not - seeing how you can work it in. (This is also GREAT for getting more comments) 

### 6. Ok thank you for staying with me, the sixth, and final, rule of short form scripting is: would I watch this?

You’ve followed the other 5 rules and you’ve written out a script. At this point it’s very easy to sit and read it through, and think, ‘it’s ok, I guess it’s interesting, I mean **I** wouldn’t watch it, but I guess I’m not the target audience’.  — this is a dangerous way to think. 

With organic growth, honestly, everyone is your target audience - including yourself. I don’t know about you but I end up watching videos on TikTok in things I’m not even remotely interested in, but they still engage me, and it’s kind of the beauty of these apps. So if you’re sitting down reading the script and realise that even you wouldn’t watch it (and you’re biased to watch it, you wrote it!) then I can guarantee it’s an almost guaranteed flop of a video. If you get bored, so will everyone else - probably. 

Ok so six rules. be simple, be concise, rehook, be authentic, remember you’re telling a story, and double check if you’d watch it. Now it sounds like a lot, but honestly I want your main takeaway to be: don’t overcomplicate it. Be playful and stress about making it perfect. The scripts I enjoy writing and reading come across in the video - and in the results. 

- V2